---
layout: post
title: The fear about tomorrow in epilepsy
---

**No matter if it is digital or on paper -- a diary for triggers and symptoms of epilepsy can be very useful. It is a good tool for adjusting medication and other treatments. When a stable and satisfying result is achieved the patient does not need to keep any diary. But for some patients, this is never achieved. Perhaps no medication works satisfyingly, or the side effects are too strong. The treatment for other illnesses that the patient has may also make it hard to treat epilepsy. Each day is a struggle of weighing the tasks of the day, the medication's side effect and the actual disease's symptoms. "The medication makes me so sick, but if I don't take it I'll probably have a seizure."**

In what ways can a program help you in managing epilepsy and wellbeing? Several apps function as an alarm clock, diaries, reminders etc. You put data into the app about when you would like to do certain things (e.g. waking up). After doing what you planned to do you write about your achievements in the diary. The problem with this approach is that it is hard or very hard to follow your plans, especially when you are feeling ill. People have a tendency of thinking of them self in other ways in the future than right now. <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uvvQrqIRLGU">Dan Ariely explains it very well</a>. The hard work of managing and replanning the things that have not yet been done is entirely left to the patient. If instead a computer program or an app could receive data about the actual condition right now, then different alternatives can be presented. E.g. the smartphone says:

<p style="border-left:0.5em solid #888888; padding-left:0.5em;">You say that you feel bad. You have only slept for five hours and have now taken medication XYZ. The alternatives you have are now
   <br><br>
   to take medication ABC and rest. Forecast outcome: :-)
   <br><br>
   to proceed without extra medication and be prepared for feeling bad today. Forecast outcome: :-(
   
</p>

*Medical background*
Therapeutic recommendation 1 - Treatment of fever cramps 1

Criteria: fever, generalized seizure <15 minutes followed by rapid recovery.
In case of fever seizures lasting> 4-5 minutes diazepam can be given rectally. Dosage: 5 mg at the age of 3 months to 2 years, then 10 mg.


Therapeutic recommendation 2 - Treatment of tonic-clonic seizures and status epilepticus

Treatment of adults
In everyday situations

Primarily diazepam rectally, 10-30 mg, or midazolam buckalt, 10 mg.

In hospital environment

Under the control of breathing and blood pressure, diazepam is given 0.25 mg / kg of body weight intravenously (not faster than 5 mg / minute) or rectally when difficulty in needle insertion. The entire dose of diazepam is given even if the seizure stops during ongoing injection. The dose may be repeated if the seizure has not stopped and then combined with fosphenytoin.
Phosphenytoin, 15-20 mg FEa / kg body weight, is given intravenously at a rate of not more than 150 mg / minute and under the supervision of ECG and blood pressure. (A practical rule is to initially halve the phosphenytoin dose if the patient is already treated with phenytoin and then adjust after acute concentration determination.) Alternatives to phosphenytoin are phenobarbital 10-20 mg / kg body weight or valproate 15-30 mg / kg body weight intravenously, alternatively levetiracetam 2,000 -4000 mg intravenous 2.
If status epilepticus is not interrupted within 20 minutes after completion of fosfenytoin injection, the patient should be transferred to intensive care for EEG monitoring and drug treatment with tiopental alternatively propofol or midazolam.
Treatment of children
In everyday situations

Primarily diazepam rectally, 0.5 mg / kg body weight (max 10 mg), or midazolam buckalt, 0.3 mg / kg body weight (max 10 mg).

In hospital environment

Under the control of respiratory and blood pressure, diazepam is given 0.25 mg / kg body weight intravenously (not faster than 2 mg / minute) or rectally 0.5-1 mg / kg body weight, not more than 15 mg. Alternatively, midazolam is given 0.2 mg / kg body weight intravenously, maximum 7 mg.
If the seizure does not cease or recur, the dose is repeated with fosfenytoin equivalent to 15-20 mg FE / kg body weight intravenously (10 mg FE / kg body weight if phenytoin treatment is in progress) - no faster than 2-3 mg FE / kg body weight / minute.
During infusion, breathing, blood pressure and ECG are checked.
Phosphenytoin is approved for children 5 years of age and older.
An alternative to phosphenytoin is phenobarbital, 10-20 mg / kg body weight, slow intravenous or valproate 15-30 mg / kg body weight or levetiracetam 30 mg / kg body weight intravenously 2.
In the absence of effect, intensive care is provided for thiophenal artery, alternatively midazolam.





