---
layout: post
title: Assess coma
---

**A smartphone could be used for instructing a novice in very basic first aid. This make apps like the <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=niwFcvo5Nfk">GoodSam-app</a> so good. It let people know of emergencies nearby, so that they can help, no matter what skill they have. Anyone can help. But the GoodSam-app even knows if there are any more advanced trained volunteers nearby, like e.g. First Responders. This is great for the patient, but on the other hand, it puts people belonging to the professional medical staff into new dilemmas.**

By labeling medical trained persons it makes them more desired in an event of an emergency. How will that change the train of thoughts in a person that belongs to the group of professional working medical staff? The nurse that comes home from a long day at the intensive care unit ask him/herself if he/she is still on duty. Since being on duty means that you have certain responsibilities, then he/she will restrict him/herself from relaxing. It can easily start a vicious cycle.

A question of 24h functionality also arises as the app or service of integrating first aid gets more integrated into the regular health care system. The persons using the app count on it. But what if the server burns down or some main issues must be repaired or updated?

As a solution to both the issue of the medical staff as well as for the issue of server responsibility, I would suggest a decentralized time bank. I imagine a time bank where each 15 minutes or 30 minutes is organized as an <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uO7uwCpcau8">midieval market</a>. During that time period needs and time is met. The time bank or "need bank" would be organized as a decentralized network on the internet. In other words, there should not be any need of a server. Seller and consumers could automatically enter the market under predefined circumstances. E.g. trained medical staff could sign up for being in duty only if no other better medically trained people were nearby. Such an app could also be beneficial in planning.

