---
layout: post
title: "Senses of Asclepius"
---
**Asclepius, the god of medicine in Greek mythology is well known for his rod. In today’s medicine with its modalities, Asclepius has also a lot of senses. It is possible to detect a vast number of parameters. Nevertheless, the senses of the patient is often the most important modalities for a successful treatment.**

Laboratory analyses, electrophysiological tests, ultrasound, etc. Even though these modalities can give a lot of information, then the most valuable modalities are the senses of the patient. Most often the patient is the first person to recognize that something is wrong or strange within the body. Before further investigations, it is the patient that should be asked about symptoms. If possible those symptoms should then be examined and verified.

While examining the patient, the health care professional most often compares the results with standard norms. How far can the patient reach by letting a computer or smart-phone examine the initial symptoms of a disease? A smart-phone-app can gain a lot of information about e.g. the vision by giving tasks like seeing patterns on the screen. Even though the information can be much worth in further investigations, the design process should not be focused on gaining as much information as possible. Instead, the design of the app should be focusing on making it simple to use. But the more data the health care provider has the better. Isn’t hat true? It is only true if the data is true. The simpler the design is, the easier it is for the patient to take accountability over the results. Of course one can hire a health-care professional to watch the examination and ensure that the app is properly used. Or the same test can be supervised by the professional while the patient performs the test using less high-tech tools like e.g. books with pictures of patterns. But the most cost-effective and less time-consuming option is that the patient takes the accountability. It might sound strange and frightening that the patient should be accountable at all. On the other hand, if the app is simple to use, then why would you pay someone to watch you using it ensuring that you use it the right way?
